When declaring resources initially, we type the resource type in lowercase. 
When we reference a resource relationship from another file, we capitalize the resource name being referenced.

 A module is an easy way to organize our configuration management tools.
 
 The catalog is the list of rules for each individual system generated once the server has evaluated all variables, 
 conditionals, and functionals in the manifest and then compared them with facts for each system.  
 
 New functions added after installing a new module can be found in the lib folder in the directory of the new module.  
 /usr/share/puppet/modules.available/puppetlabs-apache/lib
 
 Manifest files for Puppet will end in the extension .pp
 
 Metadata is data about data, and in this case, often takes the form of installation and compatibility information.
 
 When defining resource types, we write them in lowercase, then capitalize them when referring to them from another resource attribute.
 
 Node Defintions - Different kinds of nodes are defined, allowing different sets of rule catalogs to apply to different types of machines.
 
 The CA either queues a certificate request for manual validation, or uses pre-shared data to verify before sending the certificate to the agent.
 The Certificate Authority creates an SSL key for the agent machine and creates a certificate request.
 
 A FQDN is a complete domain name for a specific machine that contains both the hostname and the domain name.  
 A fully qualified domain name (FQDN) is the unabbreviated name for a particular computer, or server. 
 There are two elements of the FQDN: the hostname and the domain name.
 
 When a Puppet agent evaluates the state of each component in the manifest, it uses gathered facts about the system to decide which rules to apply. 
 templates  can these facts be "plugged into" in order to simplify management of the content of our Puppet configuration files
 
 Templates are documents that combine code, system facts, and text to render a configuration output fitting predefined rules.  
 
 Puppet uses an Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) Public Key Infrastructure to authenticate both nodes and masters.
 
 The puppet parser validate command checks the syntax of the manifest to make sure it's correct.
 
 the purpose of using multiple environments To fully isolate the configurations that agents see, By creating separate directories for different purposes,
 such as testing and production, we can ensure changes don't affect end users.
 
  Environments in Puppet are used to isolate software in development from software being served to end users.
  
  the --noop parameter used for Simulating manifest evaluation without taking any actions. No Operations mode makes Puppet simulate what it would do without actually doing it.
  
  We can test our manifests automatically by using rspec tests. In these tests, we can verify resources exist and have attributes set to specific values.
  
  If a bare-bones cloud computing experience is needed as well as a high level of control over the software being run, Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) provides 
  users with the bare minimum needed to utilize a server’s computational resources, such as a virtual machine. It is the user's responsibility to configure everything else.
  
  Adding capacity to our network to meet demand—whether vertically or horizontally—is considered to be upscaling.
 
 Cloud services provide many advantages, such as outsourcing support and maintenance, simplifying configuration management, and letting the provider take care of security.
 Cloud services provide many advantages, including simplifying configuration management, outsourcing support and maintenance, and letting the provider take care of security.
 Cloud services provide several advantages, like putting the provider in charge of security.
 
  When we migrate from traditional server configurations to the Cloud, we lift the current configuration and shift it to a virtual machine.
  
  The gcloud init command sets up the authentication procedure between our virtual machine and Google Cloud.
  
  Effective templating software allows you to capture an entire virtual machine configuration and use it to create new ones.
  
  Generally, you're going to want to choose a region that is close to your users so that you can deliver better performance.
  
  The boot disk from which the VM boots will determine what operating system runs on the VM.
  
 One way of updating VM services at scale is to simply spin them up again with an updated reference image.
 
 Puppet or other configuration management systems provide a streamlined way to deploy service updates at scale.
 
  The compute parameter tells gcloud that we are managing Compute Engine resources.
  
  The instances parameter that follows the compute parameter tells gcloud that we want to manage our VMs on the instance level.

Load balancers reroute requests in order to balance and reduce network load.

Automation is when we set up a single step in a process to require no oversight, while orchestration refers to automating the entire process.

IaC uses special machine-readable config files to automate configuration management.

Monitoring and alerting allows us to monitor and correct incidents or failures before they reach the end user.

When you connect to a website via the Internet, the web browser first receives an IP address. 
This IP address identifies a particular computer: the entry point of the website.

Round-robin load balancing is a basic way of spreading client requests across a server group. In turn, a client request
will be forwarded to each server. The load balancer is directed by the algorithm to go back to the top of the list and repeat again.

Like Puppet, Terraform uses its own domain specific language (DSL), and manages configuration resources as code.

CloudFormation is a service provided by Amazon to assist in modeling and managing AWS resources.

Azure Resource Manager is the deployment and management service for Azure. It provides a management layer that enables you to create, update, and delete resources.

Blobs are pieces of data that are stored as independent objects, and require no file system. 

 Latency is the amount of time it takes to complete a read or write operation.
 
 Sticky sessions route requests for a particular session to the same machine that first served the request for that session.
 
 Because sticky sessions can cause uneven load distribution as well as migration problems, they should only be used when absolutely necessary.
 
 Our cloud provider can increase our limits that we have set, though it will cost more money.
 
 Everything used to run the service is referred to as the environment. This includes the machines and networks used for running the service,
 the deployed code, the configuration management, the application configurations, and the customer data.
 
 CDNs allow an ISP to select the closest server for the content it is requesting.
 
 Pages are alerts that need immediate human attention, and are often in the form of SMS or email.
 
 An Alerting Policy specifies the conditions that trigger alerts, and the actions to be taken when these alerts are triggered, like sending an email address notification. 


 
 


